# Measurement Methodology
Each C program measures the time elapsed of each function by defining two variables (start, end). These variables capture the current clock time when calling the function "clock()", both before and after the execution of each function. The result of the difference between end and start, allows us to measure how many clock ticks have elapsed since the program called each function. The clock time is converted to seconds by invoking the CLOCKS_PER_SEC conversion fucntion.
# Observed Performance Differences
The most notable performance difference occurs in the program "comparison_algorithms.c". In this program, two functions are called, with the goal of counting even numbers in an Array. The function count_even_single_pass counts the array of size 50000 once, resulting in 25000 even numbers and an elapsed time of 0.000079 seconds. The second function count_even_naive however, invokes a nested loop which I believe is in the order of n * !n. THis results in a total even numbers counted of 625025000 and an elapsed time of 2.004446 seconds. This result is clearly several orders of magnitude slower than the previous function, requiring a lot more computational power.
# Relation Between Runtime and Energy Consuption
When invoking a program, its runtime is directly correlated with CPU and memory allocation time. When a program runs for extended periods of time, the CPU and RAM need to do a certain number of operations, each requiring a certain amount of physical energy to run. Making a program efficient lessens the burden on physical components, which then results in more efficient energy consumption.
# Limitations of the Experiment
This experiment is rather static, we're trying to test hard coded parameters and function invocations that are constant. This means that each expected result is within certain bounds. Running each program multiple times can show the similarity in runtime for each iteration. In more practical environments, functions can be dynamic, depending on their operand values at the moment of invocation. This may cause elapsed times to vary greatly, which is when measuing time can be valuble, allowing the engineer to see if there's optimization needed in the code. 
# Practical Engineering Takeaway
When writing a program or a function, it is vital to consider the efficiency of the code, not only from an energy consumption point of view, but also for a resource management perspective. Each component of a user's computer is a finite source of resources. If the user has too many processes and programs running, the computer will start to run slowly and inefficiently. Making lightweight programs is crucial to the smooth operation of software in today's digital world. It improves user experience, energy consumption and allows for multiple programs running at the same time, with little drawbacks to the system.
